                        ----------------------------------
                         PKZFIND (tm)  USER MANUAL
                        ----------------------------------

Copyright (C)  1999 PKWARE, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

No part of this publication may be reproduced, transmitted,
transcribed, stored in a retrieval system, or translated into
any other language in whole or in part, in any form or by
any means, whether it be electronic, mechanical, magnetic,
optical, manual or otherwise, without prior written consent
of PKWARE, Inc.

PKWARE, INC. DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES AS TO THIS SOFTWARE,
WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, FUNCTIONALITY, DATA INTEGRITY OR
PROTECTION.

PKWARE, the PKWARE logo, and PKZIP are registered
trademarks of PKWARE, Inc.  PKZFIND is a trademark of PKWARE, Inc.

Trademarks of other companies mentioned in this documentation
appear for identification purposes only and are the property
of their respective companies.


FIND FILES FAST AND EASY WITH PKZFIND

PKZFIND is a powerful yet easy to use file search utility that will
quickly search your hard disk, floppy diskettes, and network drives
and locate files based on criteria that you provide. PKZFIND's wide
array of search options allows you to construct simple and complex
searches alike. PKZFIND will even locate files archived in .ZIP
files. PKZFIND is a command line based product that is compatible
with DOS, Windows 95/98, Windows NT, and OS/2. Additionally, PKZFIND
supports Long File Names (LFNs) on the Windows 95/98 platform.


USING PKZFIND

PKZFIND can search for any file on your hard disk, including files
that are in a .ZIP file (files compressed by PKZIP). You may tell
PKZFIND to just search for a file, or search for a file "and"
automatically move to the directory in which that file exists.

With PKZFIND, you may search for:

    *     A single file.

    *     Multiple files.

    *     Files that are contained in a .ZIP file.

    *     Files that are contained in a self-extracting .ZIP
          file (.EXE files).

    *     Directory names.

You may also access multiple drives.

Even if you don't know the exact name of a file, you may specify a
partial filename and PKZFIND will find all files that match that
file pattern. Whatever your file-finding needs, you may customize
PKZFIND to fit those needs.

Note:     PKZFIND looks at files in "share" mode, meaning that it is
          compatible with network software and LANs.


USING PKZFIND WITH THE COMMAND LINE

PKZFIND is command-line driven, which means that you type all of your
commands at an operating system command prompt. PKZFIND uses DOS
based commands and syntax. For example, if your computer is currently
on the C drive, you would type your PKZFIND commands at the following
prompt:

     C:\>

Because it uses the command line, PKZFIND takes advantage of
several DOS based features. For example, you may tell PKZFIND
to search in a specific directory or on a specific drive. You may
also use such features as wildcards (* or ?) to help PKZFIND
further define your search.

Although this is not a operating system manual, it does contain
basic information on DOS based conventions, as it pertains to using
PKZFIND. If you're unfamiliar with DOS conventions, refer to your
operating system documentation. The Sample Search Commands
section at the end of this section contains several examples of file
searches. Hopefully, these examples will closely fit your own file
searching needs.


THE pkzfind COMMAND

The command you use to search for files is pkzfind. No matter what
DOS conventions you use, pkzfind is always the first thing you type
at the command prompt.


UNDERSTANDING PKZFIND

When PKZFIND finds an occurrence of the file that you request, it
displays information about that file. It also allows you to continue
the search for other occurrences, or end the search. This is handy
when you specify a partial match, for example, if you want to search
for all files that begin with the letter "B." Because there might be
more files that begin with the letter B than can fit on one screen,
displaying one file at a time prevents you from missing some of the
files that PKZFIND finds.

You may customize PKZFIND to display all files at once. Refer to
ENHANCING YOUR SEARCH WITH PKZFIND OPTIONS for more information.


WHERE CAN PKZFIND SEARCH?

PKZFIND can search wherever you tell it to. You may search a specific
drive on your computer, or in a specific directory. If you do not
specify a drive or directory, PKZFIND automatically searches on the
current drive that you're working on, and begins from the root
directory. So even if you are a couple of directories deep on your
drive, for example, \jobs\full\, PKZFIND searches "backwards" to the
"\" directory.

Note:     The "root" directory is the highest directory level on a
          drive, often denoted as \ . For example, if you're on the
          C drive, it would be C:\.

With PKZFIND, you may also search on more than one drive at the same
time.

Refer to the SEARCHING ON A DIFFERENT DRIVE and SEARCHING IN A
SPECIFIC DIRECTORY sections under GETTING STARTED for more
information.


CANCELING A SEARCH

You may cancel your search at any time. To do so, hold down the Ctrl
key and type c. The search stops and the command prompt appears.


USING HELP

Help for PKZFIND is always available. At the command prompt,
type pkzfind -h and press ENTER. You may also just type pkzfind.

Sometimes, when you type the pkzfind command incorrectly, help
automatically appears on your screen.


GETTING STARTED

This section contains all the information you need to perform a
simple search using PKZFIND. It also shows you what happens when
PKZFIND finds a file and what happens when PKZFIND doesn't find a
file.

In this section, you will learn to:

    *     Search for a single file.

    *     Search for multiple files.


SEARCHING FOR A SINGLE FILE

To search for a file:

1.   Start your computer. Make sure your screen is at a command
     prompt (for example, C:\). If you are running Windows, start
     a DOS window.

2.   At the command prompt, type pkzfind, a space, and the name of
     the file you want to search for. For example, if you want to
     search for a file named resume.doc, you would type the following
     and press ENTER:

          pkzfind  resume.doc

     If PKZFIND finds the file, the following happens:

     Version and copyright information appear, then
     the following prompt:

          /JOB/RESUME.DOC 4534 09-2-1994 0:45:48 More (ynj)?

     The more (ynj)? prompt allows you to continue or
     stop your search. For information on how to
     respond to this prompt, go to step 3.

     PKZFIND displays the following information
     when it finds a file:

          *    PKZFIND copyright information.

          *    The directory in which the file is located.

          *    The name of the file.

          *    The size of the file in bytes.

          *    The date and time the file was last
               modified.

     If PKZFIND doesn't find a file, the following happens:

     The following message appears:

          No files found

     Note:     PKZFIND version and copyright information also appear.

     The command prompt appears.

3. To search for the next matching file, type y.

    PKZFIND continues to search. If another match is found, the
    information pertaining to that file is displayed and
    the following prompt appears:

          more (ynj)?

     If PKZFIND does not find another
     match, the following appears, followed
     by the command prompt:

          (x) files found.

     where x is the number of files found.

     To stop searching, type n.

     PKZFIND stops searching and the command prompt appears.

To jump to the directory in which the file appears and stop searching
type j. PKZFIND jumps to the directory in which the file appears and
stops searching. The command prompt appears.


SEARCHING FOR MULTIPLE FILES

PKZFIND allows you to search for multiple files at one time. You may
use one of the following methods:

     *    Typing more than one filename.

     *    Using wildcards to specify a partial file pattern.


TYPING MORE THAN ONE FILENAME

To type more than one filename, put a space between each filename in
your pkzfind command. For example, if you want to search for a file
named RESUME.DOC and a file named letter.doc, you would type the
following and press ENTER:

     pkzfind  resume.doc  letter.doc


SPECIFYING A FILE PATTERN USING WILDCARDS

Sometimes when you're searching for a file, you're not sure of the
entire name of the file, but know at least a partial name or the
file extension (for example, .DOC). In this case, you may use an
asterisk (*) wildcard symbol. For example, you might want to search
for all files that contain the .DOC extension. To search for
those files, you would type the following and press ENTER:

     pkzfind  *.DOC

This tells PKZFIND to search for all files on the current drive that
end in .DOC. The asterisk indicates that the name of the file can be
anything, as long as it ends in .DOC.

For more information on wildcards, refer to your operating system
documentation.


TELLING PKZFIND WHERE TO SEARCH

Now that you've learned to do a basic file search with PKZFIND, the
next step is to learn how to tell PKZFIND to search in a particular
location, for example, a specific directory or drive.

In this section, you will learn to:

     *    Search on a different drive.

     *    Search on multiple drives.

     *    Search in a specific directory.


SEARCHING ON A DIFFERENT DRIVE

PKZFIND allows you to search on a drive other than the drive you are
on. To search on a different drive, type the name of the drive after
the filename. For example, if you want to search for the file named
RESUME.DOC on the D: drive while you are on the C: drive, you would
type the following and press ENTER:

     pkzfind  resume.doc  d:

If you type only the drive letter with a backslash (\) and not a
directory, PKZFIND starts the search in the root directory, which is
\.

For more information on designating drives at the command prompt,
refer to your operating system documentation.


SEARCHING ON MULTIPLE DRIVES

With PKZFIND, you may search on multiple drives at the same time. For
example, if you know that the file named RESUME.DOC is either on the
C drive or D drive, you could type the following and press ENTER:

     pkzfind  resume.doc  c:  d:

If the file resides on both drives, PKZFIND will find and display
both occurrences of that file.


SEARCHING IN A SPECIFIC DIRECTORY

If you don't specify a directory in which to search, PKZFIND
automatically starts to search from the root directory on your
current drive (for example, C:\) and searches through every directory
under that root directory. However, with PKZFIND, you may search in
any directory that you want.

For example, if you know that the file named RESUME.DOC is
somewhere under a directory named jobs and you want PKZFIND to only
search under that directory, you could type the following and press
ENTER:

     pkzfind  resume.doc  \JOBS

If the file you're searching for is on a different drive, for example,
D:, you would type something similar to the following:

     pkzfind  resume.doc  d:\JOBS

     Note:     Don't forget to put the backslash (\) before the name
               of the directory. When you specify directories using
               PKZFIND, follow standard command line rules. For more
               information on specifying directories on the command
               line, refer to your operating system documentation.


ENHANCING YOUR SEARCH WITH PKZFIND OPTIONS

PKZFIND contains several options that help you enhance your file
search. For example, you may tell PKZFIND to jump to the location at
which it finds a file, or you may indicate that you only want PKZFIND
to search inside .ZIP files. Each option is represented by a single
letter that you include in the pkzfind command. You may also combine
most of these options in a single command. (For a list of commands
you cannot use together, refer to Options You Cannot Use Together.)

The information that PKZFIND displays when it finds a file differs
from option to option. For example, if you use the -b option
(display only the filename), PKZFIND only displays the name of the
file, not the size, date or time. If you use the -z option (search
only in .ZIP files), PKZFIND displays the name of the .ZIP file "and"
the file that you're searching for that is contained in that .ZIP
file.

The following is a list of PKZFIND options:


     -b   Display only the filename


     -c   List all matching files without stopping,
          and skip the more (ynj)? prompt

          Normally, PKZFIND searches one file
          at a time and gives you the opportunity
          to continue the search or stop the search.

     -d   List directories that have the same name
          as the file(s) that you specified


     -j   Jump to the drive and directory in which
          PKZFIND finds a file


     -z   Search only in .ZIP files (for files that
          were compressed by PKZIP)


     -e   Search also in self-extracting .ZIP files
          (.EXE files)


     -n   Search only for files that are "not"
          contained in a .ZIP file

     -p   Pause after each screen

     -a   Search for files by the specified (e.g. h=Hidden;
          r=Read-only; s=System; d=Directories; a=archive) file
          attribute(s). (Example syntax: 'pkzfind -ars *.*' will find
          all files that have Read-only AND System attributes)

You may also search for a file based on "size." You may specify
bytes, kilobytes, or megabytes, depending on your needs. You may also
specify a range of sizes. For example, you may search for all files
that are larger than 100 bytes but smaller than 200 bytes.

     *    To search for files that are equal to or "larger" than
          xxx bytes type a forward slash (/) "or" minus sign (-),
          a plus sign (+), and the number of bytes (for example,
          pkzfind  /+555).

          PKZFIND finds all files that are equal to or larger than
          the number of bytes you type.

     *    To search for files that are equal to or "smaller" than xxx
          "bytes," type forward slash (/) "or" minus sign (-), a
          minus sign (-), and the number of bytes (for example,
          pkzfind  /-555).

          PKZFIND finds all files that are equal to or smaller than
          the number of bytes you type.

     *    To search for files that fall within a size range, in
          "bytes" (for example, equal to or "larger" than 9500 bytes
          but smaller than or equal to 11,000 bytes), type a forward
          slash (/), a plus sign (+), the minimum number of bytes, a
          minus sign (-) and the maximum number of bytes (for
          example, pkzfind  /+9500-11000).

          Do not put a space between the two values.

          Also, you may type the values in any order. For example,
          the maximum value first and the minimum value last
          (pkzfind  /-11000+9500). You must put the forward slash in
          front of the "first" value you type.

     *    To search for files that are equal to or "larger" than xxx
          kilobytes, type forward slash (/) "or" minus sign (-), a
          plus sign (+), the number of kilobytes, and the letter k.

          Do not put a space between the number and the letter (for
          example, pkzfind  /+100k).

     *    To search for files that fall within a size range, in
          "kilobytes" (for example, equal to or "larger" than 95
          kilobytes but smaller than or equal to 110 kilobytes), type
          a forward slash (/), a plus sign (+), the minimum number of
          kilobytes, the letter k, a minus sign (-), the maximum
          number of kilobytes, and the letter k (for example, pkzfind
          /+95k-110k).

          Do not put a space between the two values.

          Also, you may type the values in any order. For example,
          the maximum value first and the minimum value last (pkzfind
          /-110k+95k). You must put the forward slash in front of the
          "first" value you type.

     *    To search for files that are equal to or "larger" than xxx
          megabytes, type forward slash (/) "or" minus sign (-), a
          plus sign (+), the number of megabytes, and the letter m.

          Do not put a space between the
          number and the letter (for example, pkzfind  /+10m).

     *    To search for files that fall within a size range, in
          "megabytes" (for example, equal to or "larger" than 2
          megabytes but smaller than or equal to 3 megabytes), type a
          forward slash (/), a plus sign (+), the minimum number of
          megabytes, the letter m, a minus sign (-), the maximum
          number of megabytes, and the letter m (for example, pkzfind
          /+2m-3m).

          Do not put a space between the two values.

          Also, you may type the values in any order. For example,
          the maximum value first and the minimum value last (pkzfind
          /-3m+2m). You must put the forward slash in front of the
          "first" value you type.

For more information on the options listed above, refer to the
appropriate sections in this file. For information on how to use
these options, refer to the INCLUDING AN OPTION IN THE pkzfind
COMMAND and USING MORE THAN ONE OPTION SIMULTANEOUSLY sections that
follow.


INCLUDING AN OPTION IN THE pkzfind COMMAND

You may put a PKZFIND option anywhere in the command line, but it
must be separated from other elements in the command (for example, a
filename) by spaces. The example below uses the -d option, which
allows you to search for directories.

     pkzfind  -d  resume.doc

In this example, you also could have typed one of the following:

     pkzfind  resume.doc  -d

     pkzfind  resume.doc  /d

     pkzfind  /d  resume.doc


USING MORE THAN ONE OPTION SIMULTANEOUSLY

PKZFIND allows you to use more than one option in a single command.
To combine options, type the options right next to each other in the
pkzfind command, using one dash (-). Do not put a space between each
option. For example, if you combined the -b (display only the name of
the file) and -j (jump to a directory) options and are searching for
the file RESUME.DOC, you would type the following and press ENTER:

     pkzfind  -jb  resume.doc

You may type the options in any order.


OPTIONS YOU CANNOT USE TOGETHER

Some commands cannot be used simultaneously because they are not
compatible. For example, you cannot use the -z and -n (search only
for files that are not contained in a .ZIP file) options nor the -n
and -e (search in self-extracting .ZIP files) options together.


DISPLAYING FILENAMES ONLY

Normally, when PKZFIND displays a file, it includes the name, size,
date, and time for that file. When you use the -b option, PKZFIND
only displays the name of the file. For example, if you type
pkzfind  -b  resume.doc and PKZFIND finds the file named RESUME.DOC
in the \work\jobs directory, your screen would look similar to the
following:

     C:\> pkzfind  -b  resume.doc

      /WORK/JOBS/RESUME.DOC

     1 file found.

     C:\>

Note:     PKZFIND version and copyright information also appears.


DISPLAYING ALL MATCHING FILES AT ONCE

Normally, PKZFIND displays one file at a time and prompts you if you
want to search for more. When you use the -c option, PKZFIND displays
all matching files at once and does not prompt you.

Note:     If you search for a file match and anticipate more than one
          screen full of matches, you might not want to use this
          option because some files might flash on and off your
          screen before you have a chance to see them.


DISPLAYING DIRECTORIES WITH THE SAME NAME AS A FILE

When you use the -d option, PKZFIND displays directories that have
the same name as the file(s) you specified. For example, if you have
a file named jobs and a directory named jobs, PKZFIND would display
both and look similar to the following:

     C:\>  pkzfind  -d  jobs

     /JOBS/                               08-23-1994   12:24:34

     /WORK/RESUME/JOBS             3792   10-12-1994   10:02:28


     1 file found.

     1 directory found.

     C:\>

The first line contains the directory name.

Note:     PKZFIND version and copyright information also appears.


JUMPING TO A DIRECTORY IN WHICH A FILE WAS FOUND

When you use the -j option, PKZFIND automatically jumps to the
directory in which the file is located. For example, if you type
pkzfind  -j  resume.doc and PKZFIND finds the file named
RESUME.DOC in the \work\jobs directory, your screen would look
similar to the following:

     C:\> pkzfind  -j  resume.doc

      /WORK/JOBS/RESUME.DOC          33792   10-12-1994   10:02:28


     1 file found.

     C:\WORK\JOBS>

Note:     PKZFIND version and copyright information also appears.

Notice that you are now in the directory in which PKZFIND found the
file (in this example, \work\jobs).


SEARCHING FOR FILES CONTAINED IN .EXE FILES

When you use the -e option, PKZFIND also searches for files that are
contained in a self-extracting .ZIP file (a self-extracting .ZIP file
that has a .EXE extension). When PKZFIND displays files that are
contained in a self-extracting .ZIP file, those files appear indented
under the name of the .EXE file. For example, if you have a file
named RESUME.DOC that is contained in a self-extracting .EXE file
named work.exe, your screen would look similar to the following:

     C:\> pkzfind  -e  resume.doc

     /WORK/*JOBS/WORK.EXE

          * RESUME.DOC             3792   10-12-1994   10:02:28

     1 file found.

     C:\>

Note:     PKZFIND version and copyright information also appears.


SEARCHING ONLY FOR FILES CONTAINED IN A .ZIP FILE

When you use the -z option, PKZFIND searches only for files that are
contained in a .ZIP file. To include self-extracting .ZIP files in
your search, use the -e option also. In the following example, the
file named RESUME.DOC is displayed only because it is contained in a
.ZIP file:

     C:\> pkzfind  -z  resume.doc

     /WORK/JOBS/TEMP.ZIP

          * RESUME.DOC             3792   10-12-1994   10:02:28


     1 file found.


     C:\>

Note:     PKZFIND version and copyright information also appears.


SEARCHING ONLY FOR FILES NOT CONTAINED IN .ZIP FILES

When you use the -n option, PKZFIND does not look in .ZIP files. For
example, if the file named RESUME.DOC appeared in the \work\jobs
directory in its regular form and in compressed form in a .ZIP file,
PKZFIND displays only the non-zipped version, as shown in the
following:

     C:\> pkzfind  -n  resume.doc


     /WORK/JOBS/RESUME.DOC              33792   10-12-1994   10:02:28


     1 file found.

     C:\>

Note:     PKZFIND version and copyright information also appears.


SAMPLE SEARCH COMMANDS

This section contains some sample PKZFIND search commands. The
purpose of these samples is to show you some of the ways you may
search for files, including the use of PKZFIND options. While
browsing through these examples, you will notice that there is
usually more than one way to type a command for the same search. All
of these samples use an example file named RESUME.DOC.

Each sample contains the following:

     *    The search criteria used.

     *    The command(s) that you may type.

     *    A brief description of the sample.


Sample 1  -  Search on the current drive for a single file.

                    pkzfind  resume

This is the simplest pkzfind command you may type.


Sample 2  -  Search on the current drive for any file that begins
             with any specific file pattern.

                    pkzfind  resume.*

             The wildcard (*) indicates that the file may end in
             any text, as long as it begins with "resume."


Sample 3  -  Search on the current drive for any file that ends with
             the a specific extension.

                    pkzfind  *.doc

The wildcard (*) indicates that the filename may be anything, as
long as the extension is .DOC.


Sample 4  -  Search for a file in a specific directory under the root
             directory (\).

                    pkzfind  resume.doc  \work\jobs

                    pkzfind  resume.doc  work\jobs

                    pkzfind  \work\jobs  resume.doc

                    pkzfind  work\jobs  resume.doc

This sample assumes that you are typing from the root directory.
Notice that you have the option of whether or not to begin the
directory path with a backslash (\).


Sample 5  -  Search for a file in a sub-directory of the directory
             that is immediately above the directory you are in.

                    pkzfind  resume.doc  ..\jobs

                    pkzfind  ..\jobs  resume.doc

The double periods (..) indicate that you want to search from the
directory that appears above the directory that you are in.


Sample 6  -  Search for a file on the current drive and only display
             the filename (not the size, date, and time).

                    pkzfind  resume.doc -b

                    pkzfind  resume.doc /b

                    pkzfind  -b  resume.doc

                    pkzfind  /b  resume.doc

You may use either the dash (-) or forward slash (/) to precede a
PKZFIND option.


Sample 7  -  Search on a different drive.

                    pkzfind  resume.doc d:

                    pkzfind  d:  resume.doc

You must always include a colon (:) when specifying a drive.


Sample 8  -  Search on a different drive and specifying a directory
             in which to search.

                    pkzfind  d:\work\jobs  resume.doc

                    pkzfind  resume.doc d:\work\jobs


Sample 9  -  Search on a different drive, include directories in your
             search, and request a continuous listing of files.

                    pkzfind  d:  -cd  resume.doc

                    pkzfind  resume.doc -cd  d:

                    pkzfind  -cd  resume.doc d:

                    pkzfind  -c  -d  resume.doc d:


Sample 10  -  Search for files that are larger than or equal to "xxx"
              bytes but smaller than or equal to "xxx" bytes

                    pkzfind  /+9500-11000  resume.doc

                    pkzfind  /-11000+9500  resume.doc
