40Hex Number 8 Volume 2 Issue 4 File 003

-=PHALCON/SKISM=- Presents FindAv P/S Style!
PD War Collection Program 2
By Hal Of Pheonix
Modified by: Dark Angel of PHALCON/SKISM

FindAV version 1.5
Released 27 Jul 92
By Dark Angel of PHALCON/SKISM

In the beginning, there was MakeAV and all its counterparts. These programs
used a brute-force approach to find PKZIP serial numbers. They ran PUTAV,
PKZIP, and PKUNZIP repeatedly until a legitimate serial number was found.
Although they worked, these programs required hours, often days of running, as
well as much wear and tear on the hard drive head. Then FindAV was released
by HAL of PHOENIX.

FindAV was many, many times faster than MakeAV. Instead of running the PKWare
files over and over again, FindAV used an algorithmic approach similar to the
one used by PKWare when calculating serial numbers for registered clients. It
was a marvelous program, but it, too, had its limitations. The continual
display of numbers was aesthetically pleasing, but it took much valuable
processor time, slowing down the search for the holy serial number. E-FindAV
was released, once again speeding the search time by a large factor. E-FindAV
monitored the running of FindAV, turning off the display until the serial
number was found. This was a tremendous improvement. However, the user had
to sit through a tedious, lengthy, entirely unecessary introduction screen
before E-FindAV would execute FindAV. This was unacceptable. Additionally,
E-FindAV failed to fix some fundamental problems with FindAV.

For one, FindAV stopped after finding the first serial number. While this is
fine for most people, it is not desirable when finding existing serial
number/validation string combinations. Second, FindAV had a few bugs. The
first bug occured only in 386 mode. FindAV would "miss" some legitimate
serial numbers which it would catch in 8086 mode. This was, once again,
undesirable when looking for existing serial number/validation string
combinations. FindAV would also run into an infinite loop in certain
instances in 8086 mode. This, too, was unacceptable. Third, FindAV would not
log the serial numbers found in a file. Thus, the user had to manually copy
the number onto a sheet of paper and transfer it to a file for later
reference. Fourth, FindAV would not let the user start searching for a serial
number from any number except 1000. If the user wished to find starting from,
say, 2 billion, he or she would be forced to create a MAKEAV.DAT file and
hex-edit the appropriate values. Last, both FindAV and E-FindAV used
rudimentary disassembly-proof code which precluded users from adding features
to the program.

FindAV version 1.5 fixes these problems. It is essentially the same program
as the originally released version by HAL of PHOENIX, but with all the fixes
and enhancements mentioned above.

Command line options:
/B - begin at number
You can now start the search from any number, be it 0, 4,294,967,295 or
anything in between. This serves several purposes. Should the data file be
corrupted, it is not necessary to hexedit the data file to restart from the
last position. This option also facilitates the coordinated running of FindAV
on multiple machines. In this manner, each machine can start the search at a
different point. The value following the /B overrides the value in the
FindAV.DAT data file.

Syntax:
FindAV /B ###
Example:
FindAV /B 478293

/S - supress output
Searches may be expedited somewhat with this supress output option. This
eliminates the unecessary on-screen reporting of a sucessful finding. Logging
via the AVS.DAT file is preserved. The 'D'isplay command continues to
function
under this mode.

Syntax:
FindAV /S

Valid keystrokes in FindAV:
ESC - Terminate calculation
Pressing the ESC key causes FindAV to terminate after saving the status of the
run in FindAV.DAT.

'D' - Display
Pressing the 'D' key causes FindAV to display the current search number on the
screen. This function was originally part of the main loop. However, it
consumed countless clock cycles, so it was eliminated to save precious time.

Files created by FindAV 1.5:
AVS.DAT - log file
The AVS.DAT file is created by FindAV. FindAV uses this file to record all
sucessful serial number finds. It consists of the company name followed by
multiple lines of serial numbers. If FindAV detects the file in the directory,
it will append serial numbers to the end.

FINDAV.DAT - save file
The FindAV.DAT file is created by FindAV when the user terminates calculation.
It contains the company name as well as the current search number. It is
useful when the user does not wish to search an entire range in one running.
FindAV will automatically resume operation if it detects FindAV in the current
directory. FindAV 1.5 has data file compatability with version 1.0.

Revision history:
1.0 - Unknown - HAL of PHOENIX
- initial release

1.5 - 27 Jul 92 - Dark Angel of PHALCON/SKISM
- Bug fixes, peephole optimisation, log file, nonstop action, anynumber
begin.
