LICENSE INFORMATION


  This copy of PKZIP/PKUNZIP/PKSFX is licensed to IBM Corporation and
  is for use only by IBM employees and employees of IBM subsidiaries,
  and should not be distributed outside the IBM Corporation.  The IBM
  licensed version does not contain the encryption feature of the
  PKWARE product and may therefore be freely distributed to non-US
  employees.  This is the only version of PKWARE's product that may be
  legally distributed and used within IBM.

  Product managers interested in including these programs with their
  products should read the LICENSE.DOC file in this package for
  important information regarding IBM's distribution license for these
  programs.


FILE COMPRESSION


  The term "compression" means to reduce in size.  Computer file
  compression refers to reducing files in size so that they take up
  less storage space on disk.  PKZIP will perform this reducing
  process quickly and easily.  The compressed files are then stored
  in a special file called a ZIP file.

  ZIP files have three distinct benefits:

    1. They use less disk space than normal files.  Storing files
       in compressed form increases the life and storage
       availability of your expensive hard disk.

    2. Many individual files can be compressed into a single ZIP
       file.  This makes file group identification, copying, and
       transporting faster and easier.

    3. Compressed files travel faster via modem which reduces
       telecommunication transmission and reception.  Many BBS
       (computer bulletin board services) use PKWARE files as their
       standard.  This enables the BBS to store more files and you
       to have transfer files faster and easier.


TWO RELATED PKWARE PROGRAMS - PKZIP & PKUNZIP


  Together, PKZIP and PKUNZIP handle all of your file compression
  needs.

  PKZIP is the program that compresses files.  This shrinking process
  is often referred to as data compression.  Terms you will see
  during the compressing process are Storing, Shrinking, and
  Imploding.  PKZIP also handles all file maintenance including
  adding and deleting files, as well as reporting on technical
  information from within the compressed file.

  PKUNZIP is the program that uncompresses or extracts compressed
  files.  In addition to extracting a complete ZIP file, it can
  selectively release individual files, show files on the screen for
  fast viewing, or print them out on a printer.


   NOTE: The ZIP2EXE program will look for a file called
         PKSFX.PRG. Therefore you will have to rename
         the PKSFXJR.PRG to PKSFX.PRG when running ZIP2EXE
         and your intention is to use the smaller JR version.


INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS


  Follow the appropriate procedures for your terminal emulator to
  download the PKZIBM EXEBIN file to your workstation as a binary
  file named PKZIBM.EXE.  If you need help with the downloading
  process, please contact your local I/S help desk or area
  information center for assistance.  If you cannot find anyone local
  to help you, we'd be happy to help too, but please try hard to find
  someone local first since there aren't that many of us here!

  To install the product, simply run the PKZIBM command from whatever
  drive and directory you want the product files to be copied into.
  For example, if you have downloaded PKZIBM.EXE into your root
  directory of your C: drive and want the product files installed in
  a directory named UTILITY, the following commands should do the
  trick:

    CD C:\UTILITY
    C:\PKZIBM.EXE

  PKZIBM.EXE is a self-extracting ZIP file.  Self-extracting ZIP
  files are useful when you need to transfer compressed files to a
  person who may not be familiar with file compression and extraction
  procedures, or who does not have the PKUNZIP program.


WHERE TO GO FOR HELP


  Please use the PKWARE FORUM on the IBMPC conference disk for any
  and all discussion about this product, including bug reports.  We
  will be monitoring the forum and periodically passing along bug
  reports to PKWARE.


