The following items are new, changed, or fixed from version 1.05
of PKLITE in this release of version 1.12 of the PKLITE software.

- Fixed minor anomolies with some unusual .EXE files.

- Added a relocation item to the .EXE header so that DR-DOS and
  MS-DOS 5.00 can load PKLITE'd files below 64K.

- Updated CHK4LITE to recognize 1.12 compressed files.

- Added a test for relocation table optimization and automatic header
  optimization into PKLITE.  PKLITE 1.12 tests the relocation table to
  see if it can be optimized for better compression and asks if you want
  to re-arrange the relocation header for better compression.  This
  performs the same operation as running HDROPT and then PKLITE.  NOTE:
  if the file is re-exapanded with PKLITE -x, it will not match the
  original, but rather what the original .EXE file would be after
  running HDROPT on it.


HDROPT

  Files compressed with LZEXE and extracted with UNLZEXE and then
  compressed with PKLITE sometimes compress bigger than if the original
  .EXE file was compressed.

  This is because UNLZEXE does not restore the .EXE file exactly as the
  original file (unlike PKLITE, which does).  Specifically, UNLZEXE
  writes the .EXE relocation header in an unoptimal, non- canonical
  form.  The HDROPT program included in this version can be used to
  normalize the .EXE relocation data and allow PKLITE to compress
  UNLZEXE'd files much smaller.

  HDROPT optimizes a file's .EXE relocation header storing each header
  in a normalized canonical from, yielding much better compression with
  PKLITE.  While most popular compilers/linkers usually write the
  relocation entries in canonical form when creating .EXE files, HDROPT
  is useful for files created by UNLZEXE and perhaps other linkers that
  create un-normalized relocation headers.

  Also, when compressing some .EXE files, especially produced in a
  development environment with DEBUGGING options enabled, some people
  have reported that LZEXE compresses smaller than PKLITE.  This is
  because LZEXE automatically strips any debug data from an executable
  file when compressing it.  PKLITE only strips this data when the -r
  option is used.  In almost every single case, PKLITE with the -r
  option should compress better than LZEXE when debugging data is
  present in an .EXE file.


CHK4LITE

  CHK4LITE can be used to determine if a file has been compressed with
  PKLITE.  CHK4LITE returns an errorlevel of 0 (zero) if none of the
  file(s) scanned was compressed with PKLITE, 1 (one) if at least one
  file was compressed with PKLITE and 2 (two) if at least one file was
  compressed with the extra option in PKLITE Professional.  If both
  types of compressed files are scanned, CHK4LITE will return two.

