
                        --------------------------------------------
                            PKLITE(R) AND PKLITE PROFESSIONAL(R)
                                   *SHAREWARE USER MANUAL*
                        --------------------------------------------













*** PLEASE NOTE ***
This is a condensed version of the manual provided with the registered
version of PKLITE.  Some sections may have been condensed or omitted in
this shareware version.



Copyright 1990-1992,1995,1996 PKWARE Inc. All Rights Reserved.

U.S. Patent No. 5,051,745

No part of this publication may be reproduced, transmitted,
transcribed, stored in a retrieval system, or translated into any other
language or computer language in whole or in part, in any form or
by any means, whether it be electronic, mechanical, magnetic,
optical, manual or otherwise, without prior written consent of PKWARE, Inc.

PKWARE, INC. DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES AS TO THIS SOFTWARE, WHETHER EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, FUNCTIONALITY, DATA
INTEGRITY OR PROTECTION.


PKWARE, the PKWARE logo, PKZIP, PKLITE and PKLITE Professional are
registered trademarks of PKWARE, Inc.


Trademarks of other companies mentioned in this documentation appear for
identification purposes only and are the property of their respective
companies.

Portions of this software were obtained from BRM Technologies Ltd. and
are protected by the following copyright: Copyright 1993-1996 BRM
Technologies Ltd.  All Rights Reserved.  Used with permission.



CHAPTER ONE: WELCOME TO PKLITE



PKLITE and PKLITE Professional are easy-to-use file compression
programs used to compress DOS and Windows executable files. Both
programs increase valuable disk space by compressing executables by an
average of 45%. It might also reduce that start-up time of many programs
because of reduced drive access time.

PKLITE Professional allows you to compress your files even more to make
your executables smaller yet. It also contains several more options that add
even more flexibility to your data compression. Perhaps the most valuable
feature, however, is that PKLITE Professional protects your executables
against reverse engineering. If you use the extra compression option, you
can't even expand the file using PKLITE Professional.

PKLITE and PKLITE Professional compress the following executables:

   For Windows: .EXE, .DLL, and .DRV files.

   For DOS: .EXE, .COM, .DRV, and .SYS files.



OPERATING SYSTEM AND MEMORY REQUIREMENTS

PKLITE runs on any computer that uses DOS Version 2.1 or greater. Running
a program that has been compressed by PKLITE might require up to 84K of
extra memory overhead to expand the application in memory.


HOW DOES PKLITE COMPRESSION WORK?

PKLITE compresses your files like PKZIP, but it also adds a small amount of
extraction code at the beginning of each executable file. When you run an
application that has been compressed by PKLITE, the program automatically
expands into memory and runs. The compression process does not change
the operation of the program; it merely reduces the disk space required to
store the program. PKLITE can also expand your files back to their original
size (DOS only).

PKLITE contains several options that add flexibility to your compression.
Refer to the Using PKLITE Options section in the Using PKLITE chapter of
this manual.

CAUTION:	Do not use PKLITE on original program diskettes. You
should always make a copy of the original diskettes that are
supplied with an application. Work only from your copies.
Keep the original diskettes in a safe place.



PKLITE AND PKLITE PROFESSIONAL: WHAT'S DIFFERENT?

PKLITE and PKLITE Professional perform the same basic task: compression
of Windows and DOS executable files. However, PKLITE Professional is
more powerful in that it features an "extra compression" option that allows you
to make your executables even smaller. PKLITE Professional also protects
your files against reverse engineering by making the extra-compressed files
"unexpandable." PKLITE Professional also allows you to leave
uncompressed data in a compressed file (for example, internal overlays).

Refer to the Using PKLITE Options section of the Using PKLITE chapter
for more information on PKLITE and PKLITE Professional options.



PROGRAMS YOU SHOULD NOT COMPRESS WITH PKLITE

PKLITE can compress most executable files. However, some application
cannot be compressed, or do not run correctly when compressed. For
example, some programs require that the overlay data in the executable file
be located at a specified area in the executable. Such programs will not run
properly when compressed. Executables that merely append overlay data to
the end of the file "can" run properly when compressed.



USING PKWARE TECHNICAL SUPPORT

We hope that using PKLITE is as enjoyable and trouble-free as possible. Our
goal is to provide you with the best product and documentation possible.
However, problems and questions might arise. In most cases, you'll be able
to answer those questions or solve the problems by using this manual. But
when you need further assistance, you can reach the PKWARE Technical
Support Department in the following ways:

     *   CompuServe.

     *   PKWARE BBS Bulletin Board Service (BBS).

     *   Internet/Usenet.

     *   Calling/Faxing a Technical Support Representative.

Remember, always refer to this manual before you use one of these options.



PREPARING TO USE TECHNICAL SUPPORT

The more information you provide, the easier it will be for PKWARE Technical
Support Representatives to help you. Before you use one of the technical
support services, please have the following information handy:

     *   The version number of PKLITE.

     *   The "exact" commands you typed into your computer prior to noticing
         the problem and any error messages that appeared on your screen.

         Note:  Be prepared to FAX a copy of the error messages.

To help you organize this information, use the Customer Support Form at the
end of this chapter.



USING SUPPORT CONFERENCES

PKWARE maintains support conferences on several Bulletin Board Service
(BBS) networks. These include ILink, SmartNet, and Rime. You may leave a
question in the PKWARE support conference using any of these networks
and a support representative or fellow PKLITE user will provide an answer.
Several other BBS networks also offer PKWARE product conferences, but
those are not necessarily monitored by PKWARE.


USING THE PKWARE BBS

PKWARE maintains its own BBS. It is normally available 24 hours a day and
it supports all baud rates from 1200 to 28.8k.

To use this BBS, set your communications software to the following:

   8 bits

   1 stop bit

   no parity

For your convenience, the PKWARE BBS has multiple phone lines, offers the
latest in PKWARE shareware, and allows you to download many other files.

You can reach the PKWARE BBS at the following number:

   (414) 354-8670



USING AMERICA ONLINE

PKWARE has a support service on America Online (AOL). By using the
PKWARE keyword, you can access frequently-asked questions, download
related files, and leave questions on our message board.

Our AOL mailing address is:

   pkwaresup@aol.com



USING COMPUSERVE

PKWARE technical support representatives maintain a discussion forum on
CompuServe. To reach the forum, type GO PKWARE from any
CompuServe prompt. The PKWARE discussion forum is located in area 11.



USING INTERNET/USENET

PKWARE products are frequently discussed in the newsgroup
comp.compression. Use the Internet/Usenet to electronically mail PKWARE
Technical Support.

The Internet/Usenet address is:

   support@pkware.com

You can also contact PKWARE Technical Support through our World Wide
Web site at the following address:

   www.pkware.com



CALING A PKWARE TECHNICAL SUPPORT REPRESENTATIVE

The most direct way to receive assistance about PKLITE is to call a PKWARE
Technical Support Representative on the phone. The PKWARE Technical
Support Department is available Monday through Friday from 9:00a.m. to
5:00p.m. Central Time.

Before you call, you should FAX the necessary information. This gives the
technical support representative some time to review your problem and offer
a solution. Please indicate on the FAX that you will be calling.

The PKWARE FAX number is:

   (414) 354-8559

If you have determined that your problem is serious and needs immediate
attention, feel free to call the PKWARE Technical Support Department at the
following number:

   (414) 354-8699



USING THE PKWARE CUSTOMER SUPPORT FORM

For your convenience, a Customer Support Form has been provided to help
you record the information you need to accurately report the problem you are
experiencing. We recommend that you make several copies of this form.
REMEMBER! Include as much information as possible.

The Customer Support Form appears below:

Customer Support Form

Customer Information

Your Name:

Company Name:

Voice/FAX Phone Numbers:

Address, City, State:

ZIP code and County:

Email ID (any):

System Configuration Information

Software Version:

Computer Model/Make:

DOS Version:

Windows Version:

Drive Model/Vendor:

Information

Command you typed:

Error message displayed:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------



CHAPTER TWO: USING PKLITE



PKLITE is a command-line program, which means you type everything at a
DOS command prompt. This gives you flexibility because you can specify
drives and directory paths, for example, if you want to move a newly-
compressed executable or rename the executable. The DOS command line
allows you to do everything in one command.

PKLITE and PKLITE Professional also provide "options" that add further
flexibility to your compression. For example, you can make PKLITE
Professional do "extra" compression, saving you more disk space and
increasing the speed of the executable when you run it.



USING HELP

To get quick, on-line help on using PKLITE, type the following at your
command prompt:

     pklite

The help screen appears. Follow the instructions on this screen to use Help.




LEARNING PKLITE

To use PKLITE, you have to type pklite and the name of the executable file
you want to compress. For example, if you want to compress a file called
light.exe, you would type the following:

     pklite  light.exe

This is the most basic PKLITE command. Those two items are always
required when you use PKLITE. You can also include other information in
your command that adds flexibility to your compression needs. For example,
you can specify the location of the original file, or a new location for the newly
compressed file. You can also include options that change the complexion of
your compression (for example, the -b option creates a backup copy of the
original executable).

Refer to the next section, The pklite Command, which reviews all of the
possible items you can type on the command line. The remaining sections
detail the individual items themselves.




THE pklite COMMAND

The general format for using the pklite command is:

pklite  [option(s)]   [drive:][path]infile  [[drive:][path]outfile]

A description of each item appears below:

This item:                         Represents:
-----------------------------------------------

pklite                              The PKWARE executable compression program.

option(s)                           One or more options - each one represented by a
                                    single letter -  you can use to add flexibility to your
                                    compression (for example, the "e" option allows
                                    PKLITE Professional to compress your executable
                                    even smaller than the normal compression).
                                    Refer to Using PKLITE Options for more
                                    information.

[drive:] [path]infile               The current location of the executable you are
                                    compressing, and the name of that executable.

                                    Refer to Specifying Locations and Changing
                                    Names for more information.


[drive:] [path]outfile              The location at which you want the newly-com-
                                    pressed executable to go, and the new name you
                                    want to give it.

                                    Refer to Specifying Locations and Changing
                                    Names for more information.


The items in brackets ([ ]) are optional. Only the pklite program name and the
name of the executable file is required. Therefore, the simplest command you
can type contains the following format:

     pklite  filename

The filename is the name of the executable file you want to compress. For
example, if want to compress the file called LIGHT.EXE, you would type the
following:

     pklite  light.exe

     Note:   If you do not type the filename extension (for example, .EXE, .SYS,
             .DRV, .COM, .or DLL), PKLITE automatically compresses files with
             that particular name and that have the appropriate extension.




USING PKLITE OPTIONS

PKLITE contains several options that add flexibility to your compression.
Each option is represented by a single letter that you type right in your pklite
command and should be preceded by a dash (-) or a forward slash (/). For
example, the -e option adds extra compression to the normal amount of
compression. If you are compressing a file called LIGHT.EXE and you want
extra compression, you would type the following:

pklite  -e  light.exe

When you use an option, it must be the first item you type after the pklite
command.

The following table contains a list of available options.

This option:             Does the following:
---------------------------------------------

-a                       Compresses files with overlays, optimizes
                         relocations, windows resources, unpack
                         EXEPACK files, and compress Windows 3.0
                         files.

-b                       Creates a backup .BAK file of the original.

-c                       Adds checksum for validation load image
(DOS .EXE's only).

-d                       Skips developer-defined resources when
                         compressing.

-e                       Performs extra compression and makes the
                         compressed file unextractable (PKLITE Pro-
                         fessional only).

-e-  (DOS only)          Performs extra compression without a PSP
                         signature

-f                       Forces a file to compress, even when the file
                         size increases.

-g  (DOS only)           Leaves uncompressed data in the executable.

-k                       Compress only Windows resources.

-l                       Displays software license screen.

-n                       Never compresses files with overlays or win-
                         dows resources, nor optimizes locations. Also
                         never compresses Windows 3.0 files.

-o                       Overwrites output file, if it exists.

-p  (DOS only)           Doesn't unpack files that were compressed
                         with EXEPACK before compressing.

-r  (DOS only)           Removes overlay data.

-u                       Updates files time and date to the current time
                         and date.

-w                       Compress only Windows 3.0 files.

-x  (DOS only)           Expands a compressed file.

-s  followed by a        Use that file as the stub or header for the
filename                 newly-compressed file.

This option is available
only for Windows
executables.


Further information on each option appears below.


THE -a OPTION - COMPRESS WITH OVERLAYS, RESOURCES, AND WINDOWS 3.0
FILES

To compress files with overlays, Windows resources, and Windows 3.0 files
use the -a option.


OVERLAYS

Programs that use overlays loaded from .EXE files may not run normally
when in compressed form. PKLITE detects whether or not a program file
contains internal overlays.

Note:  PKLITE does not compress overlay data, however, the load image
       data located before the overlay data is compressed. Some programs
       require that the overlay data in the .EXE file be located at a specified
       location in the .EXE file. These programs will not run correctly when
       compressed with PKLITE. You can use the -x option to return these
       programs to their original size.

PKLITE also optimizes Windows relocations and unpacks files
packed using EXEPACK. Examples of Windows resources are
bitmaps, icons, and dialog boxes.

When you use the -a option to compress executables that contain overlays,
PKLITE automatically compresses those files.

If you don't use the -a option when you are compressing overlays, PKLITE
allows you to confirm whether or not you want to compress. For example, if
the file you want to compress is called LIGHT.EXE you would type the
following:

     pklite  light.exe

The following prompt appears:

     LIGHT.EXE may contain overlays.  Compress (y/n)?

To compress the file, type Y.

To cancel compression, type N. The file is not compressed and the DOS
prompt appears.



WINDOWS 3.0 FILES

When PKLITE compresses Windows 3.0 files, those files automatically
become Windows 3.1 files. When PKLITE encounters a Windows 3.0 file, it
reminds you that it is a WIndows 3.0 file and prompts you before it
compresses. For example, if you compress a Windows 3.0 executable file
called HEARTS.EXE, PKLITE would display the following prompt:

     File HEARTS.EXE is a Windows 3.0 file. Compress (y/n)?

To compress the file, type y. The file begins to compress. When it is finished,
that file becomes a Windows 3.1 file.

To "not" compress the file, type n. The file is not compressed.

The -b Option - Creating a Backup of Executable File

To create a backup copy of the executable file you are compressing, use the
-b option. The backup copy contains a .BAK extension. For example, if the file
you are compressing is called LIGHT.EXE, you would type the following:

     pklite  -b  light.exe

A backup copy of the file will be created. In this example, the file would be
called LIGHT.BAK. If the original file was in a directory called GAMES,
PKLITE would put LIGHT.BAK into the GAMES directory.

Note:   If the current working directory contains a .BAK file with the same
        name, PKLITE will overwrite that file.



THE -c OPTION - ADD CHECKSUM FOR VALIDATION LOAD IMAGE

This option is available only with DOS executables.

To add a checksum to the header of the executable file, use the -c option. If
you modify the executable after you add the checksum, PKLITE displays a
checksum error.



THE -d OPTION - DON'T COMPRESS DEVELOPER-DEFINED RESOURCS

If you don't want to compress resources that have been created by individual
developers, use the -d option.

This option applies only to resources that were created by developers who
wrote their own Windows resources. These resources can differ greatly from
resources such as dialog boxes or icons. (Developer-defined resources may
not use the Windows resource loader.)



THE -e OPTION - USING EXTRA COMPRESSION

This option is available only for the Professional version of PKLITE.

With the Professional version of PKLITE, you can add extra compression to
your executables by using the -e option. It also adds Program Segment Prefix
(PSP). This option allows PKLITE to compress your files even smaller than
the normal PKLITE compression method. For example, if the file you are
compressing is called light.exe, you would type the following:

     pklite  -e  light.exe

When you use the -e option on an executable, you "cannot" expand that file
using the PKLITE -x option. If you want to be able to expand your executable
to its original size using PKLITE, do not use this extra compression method.

The PSP signature is stored in the first file control block of the PSP, which is
at offset 5C in the PSP. The executable program can check for this signature
and abort if it doesn't find the signature. This assures that your executable
program will not run if the PKLITE Professional compression is removed. The
check would look something like the following:

     if (* (unsigned short int far  *)MK_FP(_psp, 0x5C)  != )x4B50)




THE -e- OPTION - USE EXTRA COMPRESSION WITHOUT PSP

This option is available only for the Professional version of PKLITE, and can
be used only with DOS executables.

With the Professional version of PKLITE, you can add extra compression -
"without" PSP signature -  to your executables by using the -e- option. This
option works the same as the -e option, except that it does not include the
PSP signature. Like the -e option, you cannot expand the executable to its
original size using the PKLITE -x option.



THE -f OPTION - FORCE FILE TO COMPRESS

This option is available only for the Professional version of PKLITE.

Some executables, especially smaller ones, might not become smaller using
PKLITE - simply because there isn't much data in them to begin with and the
overlying PKLITE code that is inserted into them actually adds space. In
these instances, although you might not achieve the compression you want,
PKLITE can still compress the data as it normally would. To achieve this
compression, use the -f option.



THE -g OPTION - LEAVE UNCOMPRESSED AREA IN FILE

This option is available only for the Professional version of PKLITE, and can
be used only with DOS executables.

Some data in your executables can be marked by "signatures" that signifies
that it is not to be compressed. With the -g option, you can have PKLITE
leave this "uncompressed" data in the otherwise compressed executable.
PKLITE scans the signature for the following:

   PKLITE\x26\xA3[length byte]

where [length byte] is a length, in bytes, of data to follow that should not be
compressed. This allows you to designate explicit areas of the program that
must not be compressed by PKLITE.



THE -k OPTION - COMPRESS ONLY WINDOWS RESOURCES

To compress only Windows resources, use the -k option.



THE -l OPTION - DISPLAY SOFTWARE LICENSE SCREEN

The -l option allows you to display the Software License Agreement
information. Because you are not compressing anything with this option, just
type the following:

     pklite  -l


THE -n OPTION - NEVER COMPRESS FILES WITH OVERLAYS, RESOURCES, OR
WINDOWS 3.0 FILES

With this option, PKLITE will "not" compress executable files that contain
internal overlays, Windows resources, nor Windows 3.0 files. To compress
such files but do not want the overlay data in the newly-compressed
executable, use the -r option, which is described below.



THE -o OPTION - OVERWRITE OUPUT FILE

If you are specifying an output file (either by relocating or renaming a file), use
the -o option if you want PKLITE to overwrite a file that exists in the target
directory that has the same name. For example, if you are compressing a file
called light.exe and you want to rename the newly-compressed file to
LIGHT2.EXE, you would type something similar to the following:

     pklite  -0  light.exe  C:\light2.exe

If a file called light2.exe already exists in the C:\ directory, the new light2.exe
will overwrite that file.



THE -p OPTION - DON'T UNPACK FILES WITH EXEPACK

This option is available only with DOS executables.

With this option, PKLITE will not unpack files that were compressed by
EXEPACK.



THE -r OPTION - REMOVE OVERLAY DATA

This option is available only with DOS executables.

If your executables contain overlay data that you do not want in the resulting
compressed file, use the -r option. PKLITE will remove this uncompressed
data from the file.



THE -s OPTION - USE SPECIFIED FILENAME AS THE STUB

This option is available only for Windows executables.

When you compress a Windows executable, you might want to include the
"stub" or "header" of another file in your compressed executable file. For
example, if you want to insert the message that warns the user about running
a Windows executable from DOS window, you can grab that message (which
is part of the stub) from another Windows file.

To use this option, you must specify the Windows file from which you are
grabbing the stub after the -s option. So if you are compressing a file called
LIGHT.EXE and you want to use the "stub" from an executable called
install.exe, you would type the following:

     pklite  -sinstall.exe  light.exe

Do not put a space between the -s and the name of the stub file.



THE -u OPTION - UPDATING THE TIME AND DATE

To make the time and date of the executable file to be the current time and
date, use the -u option.



THE -w OPTION - COMPRESS ONLY WINDOWS 3.0 FILES

To compress only Windows 3.0 files, use the -w option.



THE -x OPTION - EXPANDING A COMPRESSED FILE

This option is available only for DOS executables.

After you compress an executable with PKLITE, you can expand it back to its
original size using the -x option. For example, if you compressed the file
called light.exe and you decide that you don't want it compressed or you want
to make changes to it, type the following:

     pklite  -x  light.exe

Note:   You cannot use the -x option if you used the extra compression
        option, -e, to compress the files.




SPECIFYING LOCATIONS AND CHANGING NAMES

When you compress an executable file, you might not be in the location in
which the file resides, or you might want to put the file in a different location.
PKLITE allows you to specify that information right in the pklite command.
With PKLITE, you can:

*   Specify the location - including drive and directory path - of the file if
    it's not in the current directory. For example:

        pklite  C:\temp\light.exe

    In this example, the file being compressed isn't on your current drive,
    so the command specifies the drive and full directory path in which
    the executable resides.

*   Change the name of the file. For example:

        pklite  C:\temp\light.exe  light2.exe

    In this example, the executable file in C:\TEMP is compressed and
    written to the current directory. The original file still remains in
    C:\TEMP.

*   Specify a new location, including drive and directory path.

        pklite  C:\temp\light.exe  C:\temp\paper\light2.exe

    In this example, the command puts the compressed executable file
    in a different location "and" renames it.

    Note:  You cannot use wildcards for output files. For example, you cannot
           type:

        pklite  C:\temp\light.exe  C:\temp\paper\light2*

    In general, follow the rules for DOS for typing directory names, drive
    names, and so on.




--------------------------------------------------------------------------



CHAPTER THREE:  INTERPRETING ERROR AND WARNING MESSAGES



The following is a list of PKLITE error messages and warning messages,
along with a description of each.

An error message indicates a condition that makes PKLITE stop completely.
For example, the error called Data error indicates that the newly-compressed
file is corrupted and PKLITE cannot continue.

A warning message represents a condition that mostly affects only one or
more (but not all) files being compressed but usually does not terminate
PKLITE. For example, if you are compressing three files and PKLITE can't
compress the second file, PKLITE displays a warning message telling you
that the second file won't be compressed, however, it will continue to
compress the third file. Some warnings appear for informational purposes
and do not affect the compression.

Some errors and warnings apply only to DOS executables, some apply only
to Windows executables, and some apply to both.



ERROR MESSAGES FOR DOS ONLY

The following error messages apply only to DOS executables:

This error:                          Indicates the following:
-------------------------------------------------------------

File: <filename>: Packed             The executable compressed using
file is corrupt                      EXEPACK is corrupt.

EXE header has too many              The header section of the file contains
items                                too much information to be compressed.
                                     To correct this error, try to increase
                                     the amount of memory available to PKLITE.

No extract error code                You are attempting to expand a file but the
                                     extract code is corrupted or missing.

Data error                           An error has been detected in the com-
                                     pressed data. The file is corrupted.

Must use extra compres-              When you use the -g option, you must also
sion when uncompressed               use the -e option, which allows for extra
area option is used                  compression.
                                     To correct, retype the command and include
                                     the -e option.



ERROR MESSAGES FOR WINDOWS ONLY

The following error messages apply only to Windows executables:

This error:                   Indicates the following:
-------------------------------------------------------

Original and expanded are     When PKLITE uncompressed the file and
different                     compared it against the original file, they
                              were different. They should be the same.



ERROR MESSAGES FOR DOS AND WINDOWS

The following errors apply to both DOS and Windows executables:

This error:                        Indicates the following:
------------------------------------------------------------

Cannot open input file             PKLITE cannot open the executable you
                                   have attempted to compress. Either a disk
                                   error occurred, or the file is locked by
                                   another application. Make sure it is a true
                                   executable file.

No files found                     PKLITE could not find any executables,
                                   therefore, could not compress them.

Could not open file                PKLITE could not open the executable file,
                                   therefore, could not compress it.

Could not open output file         PKLITE could not create the output file.
                                   Either a disk error occurred, or the file is
                                   locked by another application. If you have
                                   specified an output file, make sure it is a
                                   valid filename and location.

Write error                        PKLITE created the output file, but could not
                                   write it to diskette. Either a disk error has
                                   occurred, or the file is locked by another
                                   application.

Disk full error                    Not enough disk space available on the des-
                                   tination drive for the file being created.
                                   PKLITE never deletes the original file until it
                                   is finished writing the compressed file.
                                   Therefore, there must be enough free disk
                                   space for the compressed file and the origi-
                                   nal file.
                                   To correct this error, try to free up more disk
                                   space.

Read error                         PKLITE cannot read a specified file.
                                   To correct this error, check the file to make
                                   sure it is not corrupt.

Create error                       PKLITE could not create the named file.
                                   To correct this error, check the output
                                   directory; it might be invalid or full.

Memory error                       There is insufficient memory available to
                                   process the command.
                                   To correct this error, try to free up more
                                   memory. PKLITE requires a minimum of
                                   85K of memory.

Cannot compress file into          The file being compressed and the output
itself                             file are the same.
                                   To correct this error, make sure to specify
                                   an output file that is different than the file
                                   you are compressing. For example:

                                      pklite  pat.exe  jim.exe

Compressing many files             You are attempting to compress multiple
into one file error                files into one output file.
                                   To correct this error, retype the command
                                   correctly.

Output wildcards error             The output path cannot contain any wildcard
                                   characters (for example, * or ?).
                                   To correct this error, retype the command
                                   correctly.



WARNING MESSAGES FOR DOS ONLY

The following warning messages apply only to DOS executables:

Note:	The <filename> notation below represents the file for which the error
      applies.

This warning:                      Indicates the following:
------------------------------------------------------------

File: <filename>: is com-          You have used the -p option to not unpack
pressed with EXEPACK               files compressed with EXEPACK before
                                   compressing with PKLITE.
compressing packed file            This message appears only if you have
                                   selected the -p option and serves as a
                                   reminder that PKLITE will compress the file
                                   without unpacking it.

File: <filename>: is com-          You have used the -a option to always com-
pressed with EXEPACK               press files that are packed. PKLITE unpacks
                                   the file before compressing it.
unpacking before compression       This message appears only if you have
                                   selected the -a option.

File: <filename>: is com-          PKLITE has encountered a packed
pressed with EXEPACK               executable, but you have not specified the
                                   -a or -p options that tell PKLITE how to han-
Unpack (Y/N)?                      dle this file.
                                   To continue, type one of the following at the
                                   Unpack (Y/N)? prompt:

                                   Y = Unpack the EXEPACK data, then compress
                                       with PKLITE.

                                   N = Don't unpack the EXEPACK data and
                                       compress the entire file.


File: <filename>: loads into       Data in high memory cannot be compressed.
high memory and cannot
be compressed

File: <filename>: may con-         You used the -n option, which tells
tain overlays, file not            PKLITE not to compress files with overlays.
compressed                         This message appears only when you use
                                   the -n option and serves as a reminder that
                                   you use that option.

File: <filename>: cannot be        You used the -e option to compress this file
expanded                           originally. Therefore, you cannot expand the
                                   file using the -x option.

File: <filename>: cannot be        You are using an older version of PKLITE.
expanded, incorrect version        Make sure to run the current version of PKLITE


File: <filename>: Extra            You cannot use the -e option (extra com-
compression not available          pression) with .SYS files. PKLITE will pro-
for .SYS files, using normal       ceed with normal compression.
compression.

File: <filename>: Extra            You cannot use the -e option (extra com-
compression not available          pression) with .COM files. PKLITE will pro-
for .COM files, using nor-         ceed with normal compression.
mal compression.

File: <filename>: Check-           PKLITE does not perform checksums on
sum option not available           .SYS files. PKLITE will proceed with normal
for .SYS files, option             compression.
ignored for this file.

File: <filename>: Check-           PKLITE does not perform checksums on
sum option not available           .COM files. PKLITE will proceed with normal
for .COM files, option             compression.
ignored for this file

File: <filename>: Rear-            This message appears when you use the -a
ranging relocation data for        option, which allows PKLITE to optimize
better compression                 relocations.


File: <filename>: Unopti-          This message appears when you do not use
mal relocation data                the -a option, which allows PKLITE to opti-
detected, rearrange for            mize relocations.
better compression
                                   To continue, type one of the following at the
                                   (y/n)? prompt:

                                   Y = Rearrange unoptimal relocation data for
                                       better compression.

                                   N = Don't rearrange unoptimal relocation
                                       data for better compression.


File: <filename>: is not           You used the -x option, which expands the
compressed                         file. PKLITE does not compress the file with
                                   the -x option.

File: <filename>: could not        The file you specified is too small to
                                   compress (less than 400 bytes), or too large
                                   be compressed






WARNING MESSAGES FOR WINDOWS ONLY

The following warning messages apply only to Windows executables:

This warning:                                Indicates the following:
----------------------------------------------------------------------

File: <filename>: Unpack option not          You are using the -p option,
available for Windows files, option          which is not available for
ignored                                      Windows executables.

File: <filename>: is a Windows file          Windows files cannot be
                                             expanded (uncompressed)
                                             and cannot be expanded

File: <filename>: Removing overlays          You are using the -r option, which
option not available for Windows files,      is not available for Windows exe-
option ignored                               cutables.

File: <filename>: extra compression          You cannot use the -e- option
option without PSP signature not             (extra compression without PSP
available, using extra compress              signature) with Windows
                                             executables. PKLITE will proceed
                                             with extra compression.

File: <filename>: original and               The segments for the original and
expanded are different                       expanded executable files are
                                             different.
                                             After compressing the executable
                                             segments, PKLITE verifies that
                                             the segments were compressed
                                             correctly.

File: <filename>: too small to com-          The file you want to compress is
press                                        too small.

File: <filename>: is not a valid Win-        The file is not a valid Windows
dows file                                    executable file.


File: <filename>: does not have a            The old-style header in the exe-
valid Windows EXE header                     cutable file being compressed is
                                             not valid. The header might be
                                             corrupted.

File: <filename>: has a bad NEW              The new-style header in the exe-
EXE file header                              cutable file is not valid. The
                                             header might be corrupted.

File: <filename>: does not contain           The executable file you are trying
segments                                     to compress does not contain any
                                             segments.

File: <filename>: contains too many          The executable file you are trying
segments                                     to compress contains too many
                                             segments.

File: <filename>: has lost an imported       PKLITE could not find an
file name                                    imported filename.


File: <filename>: does not use               The executable file being com-
KERNEL                                       pressed does not use the
                                             Windows kernel.

File: <filename>: new segment could          A segment of the executable file
not be aligned                               could not be aligned properly by
                                             PKLITE.

File: <filename>: bad or unknown             PKLITE cannot find or does not
STUB file being given                        recognize the stub or header file
                                             that you specified on the com-
                                             mand line.

File: <filename>: STUB file is not an        The stub or header file you speci-
EXE file                                     fied is not part of an EXE file. The
                                             file you specify on the command
                                             line must be an executable file.

File: <filename>: bad format for win-        The format for the stub or header
dows STUB file                               file information is invalid.


File: <filename>: too many reloca-           One of the segments of the exe-
tions for only one segment                   cutable file contains too many
                                             relocations.

File: <filename>: resources could not        Some of the resources in the exe-
be aligned                                   cutable file could not be aligned.




WARNING MESSAGES FOR DOS AND WINDOWS

The following warning messages apply only to DOS executables:

This warning:                                Indicates the following:
----------------------------------------------------------------------

File grew in size and could not be           The file being compressed got
compressed.                                  bigger and was not compressed.
                                             To compress files that get
                                             bigger during compression, use
                                             the -f option.

File: <filename>: is a restricted file       Some executables cannot be
name that cannot be compressed               compressed by PKLITE. When-
                                             ever PKLITE encounters one of
                                             these files, it will only display this
                                             warning message.


File: <filename>: is already compressed      The executable file you want to
                                             compress has already been compressed.

File does not have a valid extension:        PKLITE does not recognize the
<filename>                                   extension on this file and cannot
                                             compress the file.


File: <filename> is read-only,               Read-only files cannot be com-
skipping, must specify an output file        pressed into the executable. You
                                             must direct it to an output file.
                                             To do so, follow the name of the
                                             executable file in your command
                                             with the name of an output file.

File: <filename> is a Win32 program          PKLITE cannot compress Win32 files.
and cannot be compressed.



